Rearchitecting Hugging Face Uploads and Downloads (#2487)
huggingface/blog: rearchitecting-uploads-and-downloads.md

- Uploads from 88 countries
- 8.2 million upload requests
- 130.8 TB of data transferred

The map below visualizes this activity, with countries colored by bytes uploaded per hour.

<p align="center">
    <img src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/blog/rearchitecting-uploads-and-downloads/animated-uploads-choropleth.gif" alt="Animated view of uploads" width=100%>
</p>

Currently, uploads are stored in an [S3 bucket](https://aws.amazon.com/s3/) in **`us-east-1`** and optimized using [S3 Transfer Acceleration](https://aws.amazon.com/s3/transfer-acceleration/). Downloads are cached and served using [AWS Cloudfront](https://aws.amazon.com/cloudfront/) as a CDN. Cloudfront’s [400+ convenient edge locations](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/networking-and-content-delivery/400-amazon-cloudfront-points-of-presence/) provide global coverage and low-latency data transfers. However, like most CDNs, it is optimized for web content and has a file size limit of 50GB.

> While this size restriction is reasonable for typical internet file transfers, the ever-growing size of files in model and dataset repositories presents a challenge. For instance, the weights of [meta-llama/Meta-Llama-3-70B](https://huggingface.co/meta-llama/Meta-Llama-3-70B) total 131GB and are split across 30 files to meet the Hub’s recommendation of chunking weights into [20 GB segments](https://huggingface.co/docs/hub/en/repositories-recommendations#recommendations).

Reviewer: This sounds a bit like max file size is the main driver. Perhaps we could also mention deduping chunks here in the intro as well.

Author: Good point! Added some additional context.

The read path prioritizes simplicity and speed to ensure high throughput with minimal latency. Requests for a file are routed to a CAS server, which provides reconstruction information. The data itself remains backed by an S3 bucket in **`us-east-1`**, with AWS CloudFront continuing to serve as the CDN for downloads.

The write path is more complex to optimize upload speeds and provide additional security guarantees. Like reads, upload requests are routed to a CAS server, but instead of querying at the file level [we operate on chunks](https://huggingface.co/blog/from-files-to-chunks). As matches are found, the CAS server instructs the client (e.g., [huggingface_hub](https://github.com/huggingface/huggingface_hub)) to transfer only the necessary (new) chunks. The chunks are validated by CAS before uploading them to S3.

> There are many implementation details to address such as network constraints and storage overhead which we’ll cover in future posts. For now, let's look at how reads currently look. The first diagram below show the read and write path as they currently look today:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are many implementation details to address, such as network constraints or storage overhead, which we’ll cover in future posts. For now, let's look at how reads currently look. The first diagram below shows the read and write paths as they currently look today:
```

<figure class="image text-center">
    <img src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/blog/rearchitecting-uploads-and-downloads/old-read-write-path.png" alt="Old read and write sequence diagram" width=100%>
    <figcaption> Reads are represented on the left; writes are to the right. Note that writes go directly to S3 without any intermediary.</figcaption>
</figure>

Meanwhile, in the new design, reads will take the following path:

<figure class="image text-center">

>     <img src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/blog/rearchitecting-uploads-and-downloads/new-reads.png" alt="New read path in proposed architecture">

Reviewer: (nit: the "return chunks" box appears to be struck out by the arrow)
